All right.
So Jenkins is up and running on AC two in this video.
Let's go over a brief overview of the Jenkins console.
All right.
So on the bottom right of the screen, you have the Jenkins version.
All the good stuff is on the left.
So to create a job, you will use a new item.
And to manage your Jenkins install plugins, you are going to select Manage Jenkins.
So if you select Manage Jenkins, it is going to open up this view with system configuration, security
status, etc..
So the way I navigate this is I actually hover my mouse over this dashboard and then click this down
arrow and here it shows the same option, but it makes it easier.
So you could see if you hover your mouse to manage Jenkins All the options come in and you can simply
select the one you want to go.
And we are going to go over these options on individual lectures as we go through different demos and
different use cases.
So let's learn about this configure system one real quick.
So just for fun, let's select configure system and this shows all the Jenkins information will be saved
in slash far last lib SLAs Jenkins on the AC too.
If you have installed Jenkins and local you can go there as well.
It's going to show you a local directory system.
Message is just a message which is going to show in your Jenkins screen.
For example, let's say you put I will run Jenkins and get better paying job and click Save.
And you can see on your Jenkins console, it will show the message.
Don't use this creative option because the one you want to use is new item on the left, either from
here or on the dashboard.
New item.
Why?
You should not use anything here.
Real quick.
So I'm going to open up a Jenkins where I have a bunch of stuff already done.
This is the screen you probably going to see most of the time.
So the new item here is kind of gone.
Only where you can create new item is from the left.
And here you can create different views.
So you can click this plus icon and it is going to open up this list view or my view.
So my view is default.
You can click list view.
Click.
Okay.
And then you can select what jobs you want to see, what columns in the job you want to see.
So it's up to you.
Most of the times the administrator will set this up for you, for the whole team.
And going back to the initial screen, it kind of shows what jobs I ran or what jobs ended successfully
marked by the green checkmark and what jobs failed marked by the red x icon and the jobs which has just
three dots and neither a green checkmark or a red x means I have created the jobs, but I have not submitted
them.
All right.
Let's go ahead and build our very first Jenkins job.